---
layout: post
title: 英语学习-2
date: 2026-02-28
categories: [英语学习]
hidden: true
---

## be doing

- Ann is in her car, She is on the way to work,she is driving to work. 
- please don't make noise, I'm working.
- Let's go out now,It isn't rainning any more
- Is Colin working this week? No,he's on holiday.
- Brain! How nice to see you! what are you doing these days?
- the world is changing,things never stay the same.

## do

- Nurses look after patients in hospitals.
- It's a nice day, I suggest we go out for a walk.
- I won't tell anybody what you said,I promise.
- I apologise for what I said about you,It was't true and I shoudn't have said it.

## I did 

Jane was an musician and composer, she lived from 1755 to 1790. she started composing at the age of 5 and wrote more than 6000 pieces of music. she was only 35 years old whenshe died.

- It was warm,so I took off my coat.
- the film wasn't good,so I did't enjoy it very well.
- I was tired,so I went to bed very early.
- we went to Kate's hourse,but she wasn't at home.

## was doing

yesterday Jane and Paul played tennis,they began at 10.00 and finished at 11.00.so at 10.30,they was playing tennis.

- Ann was waiting for me,when I arrived
- How far were you driving when the accident happend?
- when I was young,I wanted to be a bus driver.

## have done

- Tom is looking for his key,he can't find it, he has lost his key.
- I've just been to the shop,I 've bought lots of things.
- Tom has gone out,he'll be back in about an hour.

- have you traveled a lot ? 
- yes,I've been a lot of places.
- really,have you been to China?
- yes,I have been to China twice.
- what about India?
- No, I havn't been to India.

## have been doing

- Is it rainning?
- No,but the ground is wet
- It has been rainning.

- How long have you been learning English?
- Tom is still watching tv,he has been watching tv 3 hours.
- where have you been?I's been looking for you for an hour.

## How long have you been ...?

- how long have you been married?
- since 2001/ for 25 yeas.

- do you ofen see Jane? No,I havn't seen her about a month.


## had done 过去完成时
Jane went to a party last week, Mike went to the party too,but they didn't see each other, because Jane went home at 10.30, but Mike arrived at 11.00.
when Mike arrived at the party,Jane wasn't there, she had gone home.

## had been doing 过去完成进行时
yesterday morning,I got up early and looked out of the window, the sun was shining,but the ground was very wet, because It had been rainning.
It was not running when I looked out of the window,but It had been rainning before,that's why the ground was wet.

## have got/have 

- have you got any money? do you have any money?
- I have got a car / I have a car.

## used to do sth 过去常常，但是现在不

- Paul stopped smoking 2 years ago, he doesn't smoke any more,He used to somke, he used to smoke 40 cigerettes a day.
- I used to go home by train, and I drive to everywhere now.
- I uesd to read books a lot, but I don't read books any more.
- I used to live alone. I live with my family now.

## be doing/do 表将来

- be doing 表示将来计划要做的事
- do 表示将来已经确定的事
- what are you going to do on evening ?
- what are you doing on Saturday evening?
- what time does the train leave on evening?
- what time are you leaving tomorrow?
- we are having a party next Saturday,would you like to come?

## I'm going to do 

我已决定要做...(但可能还没有安排去做)
be doing 一般用于表示已安排进行的动作

- he is going to fall into the hole
- there are a lot of clouds in the sky. It's going to rain.

## will 表示说话时决定要做的动作

- that bag looks so heavy,I'll help you with it.
- of course, I'll give it to you this afternoon.
- thanks for lending me the money,I'll pay you back on Friday.
- I feel a bit hungry,I think I'll eat something
- I don't think I'll go out tonight,I am so tired.
- I can see you're busy,I won't stay long.
- the weather doesn't look very good,Do you think it'll rain?
- sally and David are in love,Do you think they'll get married?
- the meeting is going on,when do you think it will finish?
- the future situation is uncertain. what do you think will happen?
- can you wait for me? I won't be very long.
- if you don't eat anything now, you will be hungry later.

## shall 表询问意见

- what shall we do?
- shall I close the window?
- shall I buy it?
- what time shall I call you?

## will be doing 与 will have done

将来进行时

- is it all right if I come at about 8.00?
- no,I'll be watching the football match.
- well,what about 9.30?
- fine,it will have finished by then.

- don't phone me between 7.00 and 8.00, we'll be having dinner then.
- let's wait for Marry to arrive and then we'll have dinner.

还可以用来表示将要要做的动作

- if you see Sally,can you ask her phone me?
- sure,I'll be seeing her this evening,so I'll tell her then.

- will you be passing the post shop when you're out?
- probably,why?
- I need some stamps,could you get me some?
- ok,I'll get some for you.

- will you be using your bicycle this evening?
- No,do you wana borrow it?

将来完成时

- Sally always leaves for work at 8.30 in the morning. so she won't be at home at 9.00, she'll have gone to work.

## when/if 从句

- what do you want to be when you grow up?
- when you are in London again,you must come and see us.
- I'll phone you when I get home from work.
- I'm going to read a lot of books while I'm on holiday.
- I'm going back home next Sunday,before I go,I'd like to visit the museum.
- can I borrow that book when you've finished it?
- don't say anything while Paul is here,wait untill he has  gone.
- when I go shopping ,I'll buy some food.
- if I go shopping,I'll buy some food.
- don't worry if I'm late tonight.











