---
layout: post
title: 英语学习-1
date: 2026-02-18
categories: [英语学习]
hidden: true
---

## 2026-02-28

- Do you have any idea where he is ?
- Do you have any idea who did this?
- Do you have any idea how unhappay I was before I met you?
- Do you have any idea how dangerous and difficult it was ?
- Do you have any idea why the computer is not working?
- Do you have any idea how furious I am?

- Don't make fun of his efforts.
- Don't make fun of his accent
- Don't make fun of someone's mistakes.
- Don't make fun of people
- Don't make fun of me. I'm serious.
- Don't make fun of my size

- No wonder he didn't come to work yesterday.
- No wonder the flight was delayed.
- No wonder you are not dating anyone
- you told French people this?  No wonder they hate you

- I'm not responsible for you 
- I'm responsible for your career
- I'm responsible for the matter
- I'm  responsible for what my son has done
- I can't even be responsible for my breakfast

- I'd rather have tea instead of coffee in the morning
- I'd rather take the bus than drive in heavy traffic
- I'd rather die tomorrow than live a hundred years without knowing you.
- I'd rather not.  - I insist
- I'd rather stay at home and clean home than go out tonight

- I'm not used to the climate here
- I'm not used to live wihtout you 
- I'm not used to the fast peace of city life

- As long as you water the plants, they will grow well
- As long as you finish your homework, you can go out with your friends
- anything is possible,as long as you have enought time, resource ,and of course money.

- I'm about to leave for work.
- I'm about to give you a call.

- are you familiar with these photos?
- you face looks so familiar to me
- It's all set
- road trip is very popular in America
- 



## learn english

English is not just a  language, It's a life-changing skill,learning English is not just about words and grammer,It's about power and freedom.

when you speak English fluently, you no longer feel trapped in your country in your job or in your limitations, instead,you feel confident,strong and independent,

one day in the future,you will look back and realize learning English was the best decsion of your life.

## just go

a lot of things are like traveling, and when you decide to go ,the hardest part is already done.
but the reality is that many people like to stop and watch , so along the way , there are not many people on the journey,and even fewer people are willing to climb to the top.

Every day something different will happen, rub shoulders with different people,and what you have to do is allow everything to happen,and then accept it with peace of mind, then your life will develep step by step in a better direction.

## to be yourself

the world is very big and people are different. 
you don't have to be popular.
you don't have to be outstanding, 
just like wind,It's not defined, 
I want you to be happy,free and do what you like,
you don't have to be a rose,
be a nameless flower
the most important thing is to be yourself

## my simple dream

everyone have dreams, my dream is very simple,I want to speak English well,it is not easy for me,I have a job and lovely child,I can only stduy in my free time. sometimes I feel tired, but I never give up, because I want to be a good example to my child, I know I need to try hard everyday, Never stop chasing your dream.

## I am / I don't 省略

1. he likes tea,but she does't
2. are you tired? I was,but I'm not now.
3. I haven't got a car,but my sister has.
4. please help me. I'm sorry,I can't
5. she won't be there,But I will
6. Are you going now? I'm afraid I must.
7. she isn't tired,but he is.

## it (代词)

1. what time is it?
    - It's half past ten.
    - It's late
    - It's time to go home  ( It's time to do/for sth)
        - it's time for bed
        - it's time to say goodbye
2. what day is it?
    - it's Thurday
    - it's 16 March/March 16
    - It was my birthday yesterday
3. It's three kilometers from our house to the city center
    - how far is it from New York to Los Angeles?
    - It's a long way from here to the station. (a long way 常用于肯定句)
    - we can walk home,it isn't far (far常用于否定句和问句)
4. It's raining
    - it isn't raining 
    - is it snowing?
5. It's ... to do 
    - it's difficult to explain
    - it wasn't easy to find your house
    - It's impossible to understand her
    - it's impossible to change her
    - it's terrible to give up your dream
    - it's nice to see you again
    - it's so expensive to live here
    - it's safe to cross the road now
    - it's dangerous to walk alone in the woods at night


## there was/ were

1. I was hungry,but when I got home,there was nothing to eat.
2. there was a train at 10.30 o'clock
3. there was a party last night

## there has/have been

1. last week I went back the town where I was born , there have been a lot of changes.
2. look, there has been an accident, it is so dangerous here, there have been many accidents.

## there will be

1. I am going away, there are packing to do today, because there won't be time tomorrow
2. do you think there will be a lot of people at the party on Saturday?
3. the manager of the company is leaving , so there will be a new manager soon.


## there is / are

1. there is a tree in the garden
2. there is a tree and some bushes in the garden
3. there is a train at 10.30, is it a fast train ?
4. there is a hosptal in the city
5. there are seven days in a week
6. there is nothing on TV tonight
7. do you have any money? yes, there is some in my bag
8. excuse me, is there a hospital here? yes,at the end of street
9. excuse me, is there a resturant in this hotel? No,I'm afraid not
10. we can't go sking, there isn't any smow

## be doing

1. you are making much noise.
2. I'm looking for Jane,do you know where she is?
3. I'm reading a book at the moment,I'll lend it to you when I've finished it
4. please don't make so much noise,I'm working
5. she is driving to work
6. I'm tired,I'm going to bed now
7. how is your new job? Not so good at the moment, I'm not enjoying it very much
8. Ken is still ill but she is getting better slowly
9. the world is changing,things never stay the same
10. the cost of living is increasing,every year things are more expensive.

## used to

1. I used to play guitar when I was a child
2. I used to go to work by bus,but now I drive to everywhere
